								Steps to take for permission



   After you have noted the text or media files you would like to source, follow the simple steps below to seek permission if possible:

1. Locate if there is a Copyright link on the page. If so, this will state the type of rights for copying information. If not, move to the next step.

2. Locate if there is a Terms and Conditions link on the page.
   If so, read through the content and locate any statements in regard to the use or copying of resources on the web site. 
   If nothing exists, or there is no Terms and Conditions link, move to the next step.

3. Locate if there in a Contact page link available. If so, contact the web page owner or administrator to enquire about the usage of their resources. 
   If no Contact page is available, move to the next step.

4. See if there is a link available to either an administrator, or what we used to call the webmaster, or a link to the company that owns the site. 
   You may be able to contact someone who can advise you on who next to contact in regard to gaining permission. If not, move to the next step.

5. Check to see if there is any embedded information in the digital material, such as metadata. Any information would help when you move to the next step.

6. At this point you may need to go outside of any web page link to the relevant authorities for some help. See below for more detail.

7. If you have got to this step without being able to obtain permission to use the resource, it may be best to cut your losses and seek other resources or build your own.


If you are having trouble finding the information you need, the following organisations may be able to help you.

Photos or visual art

You may be able to obtain a licence from Copyright Agency (with which Viscopy merged in 2017) 
for the reproduction of works of art from Australia or overseas from copyright.com.au.

Music and sound recordings

There may be separate copyrights in a sound recording – in the recording itself and in the music and lyrics on the recording. 
There are several organisations you may need to contact, depending on how you want to use music.

• The Australasian Mechanical Copyright Owners Society (AMCOS) and the Australasian Performing Right Association (APRA) 
  may be able to help you find the owner of copyright in music, as they have extensive databases of rights holders.

• The Phonographic Performance Company of Australia (PPCA) and the Australian Record Industry Association (ARIA) 
  may be able to help you find the record company that owns copyright in a sound recording you want to use.

